# xpinaudit-tool

# Privilege Escalation Audit Tool

This is a Bash script that performs a security audit on a Linux system to identify potential privilege escalation vulnerabilities. The script generates an HTML report that summarizes the findings in various categories, such as SUID and SGID files, user accounts, cron jobs, weak file permissions, and more.

## Introduction

Privilege escalation is a serious security risk that can result in unauthorized access to sensitive data or systems. This can occur when an attacker gains elevated privileges on a system, such as root access, and can then execute malicious code or gain access to restricted files or information.

To help identify potential privilege escalation vulnerabilities, this Bash script performs a security audit on a Linux system and generates an HTML report that summarizes the findings in various categories.

## Features

- Performs a security audit on a Linux system to identify potential privilege escalation vulnerabilities.
- Generates an HTML report that summarizes the findings in various categories, such as SUID and SGID files, user accounts, cron jobs, weak file permissions, and more.
- Includes a severity level and a list of findings in each category, along with a brief explanation of the security risk and potential impact.
- Easy to use with administrative privileges.

## Installation

1. Download the script from this repository or clone the repository to your local machine.
2. Open a terminal window and navigate to the directory where the script is located.
3. Make the script executable with the following command:
`chmod +x xpinaudit.sh`

## Usage

1. Open a terminal window and navigate to the directory where the script is located.
2. Execute the script with administrative privileges:
`sudo bash xpinaudit.sh`
3. Wait for the script to complete its audit. It may take several minutes, depending on the size of the system.
4. Once the script has completed, it will generate an HTML report named `privilege_escalation_audit.html` in the same directory as the script.

## Report Contents

The report generated by the script includes the following categories:

- SUID and SGID Files
- User Accounts
- Cron Jobs
- Weak File and Directory Permissions
- Sudoers Configuration
- Unsecured Configuration Files
- World-Writable Directories
- Root-Owned Files in User Home Directories
- Sensitive Files
- Elevated Processes
- Open Network Connections
- Users with Weak Passwords
- Outdated Software Packages
- Unsecured Network Ports

Each category includes a severity level and a list of findings in that category, along with a brief explanation of the security risk and potential impact.

## Credits

This script was created by xpinux for educational purposes only. Please use it responsibly and with caution.

